# Project Data Warehouse
## Project Overview

A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

In this project, we will create an ETL pipeline to build a data warehouses hosted on Redshift. 

## Song Dataset 

S3 Bucket: s3://udacity-dend/song_data

We will be working with two datasets that reside in S3. 

It's a subset of real data from [Million Song Dataset](https://labrosa.ee.columbia.edu/millionsong/). Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID.

Sample Data:
```
{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}
```

## Log Dataset

s3://udacity-dend/log_data

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this  [event simulator](https://github.com/Interana/eventsim)  based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset are partitioned by year and month. 

Sample Data: 

    {"artist":null,"auth":"Logged In","firstName":"Walter","gender":"M","itemInSession":0,"lastName":"Frye","length":null,"level":"free","location":"San Francisco-Oakland-Hayward, CA","method":"GET","page":"Home","registration":1540919166796.0,"sessionId":38,"song":null,"status":200,"ts":1541105830796,"userAgent":"\"Mozilla\/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_9_4) AppleWebKit\/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome\/36.0.1985.143 Safari\/537.36\"","userId":"39"}


## Schema for Song Play Analysis

#### Fact Table
songplays - records in event data associated with song plays. Columns for the table:

    songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

#### Dimension Tables 
##### users

    user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
##### songs

    song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration

##### artists

    artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude

##### time

    start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday


## How to Run

#### Setup Configurations 
Setup the dwh.cfg file. File format for **dwh.cfg**

```
[DWH]
DWH_CLUSTER_TYPE = multi-node
DWH_NODE_TYPE = dc2.large
DWH_NUM_NODES = 2
DWH_CLUSTER_IDENTIFIER = dwhCluster
DWH_DB = 
DWH_PORT = 5439
DWH_DB_USER = 
DWH_DB_PASSWORD = 
DWH_IAM_ROLE_NAME = 
DWH_ENDPOINT = 

[SECURITY_GROUP]
NAME = redshift_security_group
DESCRIPTION = redshift security group

[INBOUND_RULE]
PORT_RANGE = 5439
CIDRIP = 
PROTOCOL = -1

[IAM_ROLE]
NAME = 
DESCRIPTION = 
POLICY_ARN = arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AmazonS3FullAccess
ROLE_ARN = 

[S3]
LOG_DATA='s3://udacity-dend/log_data'
LOG_JSONPATH='s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json'
SONG_DATA='s3://udacity-dend/song_data'

```

### Run main.py

When running main.py you'll create all AWS services needed to create a Datawarehouse. Creation of IAM role and policy followed by creation of Redshift cluster after that we will load the data from s3 to a staging area and consume the data into Redshift. After loading of data i have implemented some checks to see if data was loaded into the table and printed the results, only after that all services will be deleted.
